===========================================================
# 4.1 The Stack and the Heap
===========================================================
**Both stack and the heap are parts of memory available to your code to use at runtime**
## Stack Structure
- Store values in the order it gets them and removes the values in the opposite order (LIFO - Last In First Out)
- All data stored on the stack must have a known, fixed size. 
## Heap Structure
- Allocating: Store data in the heap the memory allocator will find an empty spot in the heap that is big enough, marks it as being in use, and returns a `pointer` (address of that location) (This process called **Dynamic Memory Allocation**)
- The `pointer` to the heap is a known, fixed size => can store the `pointer` on the stack, when you want to access the data must follow the pointer. (Dereferencing)
**Note:** Pushing to the stack is faster than allocating on the heap.
- The allocator never has to search for a place to store new data, that location is always at the top of the stack. 
- Allocating space on the heap requires more work because the allocator must first find a big enough space to hold the data and then perform bookkeeping to prepare for the next allocation.
- Accessing data in the heap is also slower than accessing data on the stack because the allocator has to derefencing. 

===========================================================
## Ownership Rules
===========================================================
- Each value in Rust has an `owner`
- There can only be one owner at a time
- When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped
# Variable Scope
A `scope` is the range within a program for which an item is valid.
```rust
}  // s is not valid here, since it's not yet declared
let s = "hello"; // s is valid from this point forward

// do stuff with s
} // this scope is now over, and s is no longer valid
```
- When `s` comes into the scope, it it valid
- It remains valid until it goes out of scope
## The String Type
- Literals String fixed size and immutable store on stack
- String unknown size and store on heap.
### Memory and Allocation

