## 1.1 Hello World

```rust
fn main(){
	println!("Hello, World!");
}
```
Note: println! calls a Rust macro, it it not a normal function (Discuss later for now using ! is calling macro).
## Compile and Execution 
- Compile Rust program using "rustc" command 
```
$ rustc main.rs
```
Note: Similar to C or C++ (gcc or clang). After compiling Rust output a binary executable.
- Run file using 
```
$ ./main 
```
**Note:** Rust is an ahead-of-time compiled language => after compiling can run file without install rust (Run directly on CPU)
## 1.2 What is Cargo
- Cargo is a Rust build system (similar to [[CMake#^cmake-def|CMake]])
- Cargo building your code, downloading libraries your code depends on version
- Check whether cargo is installed or not 
```
$ cargo --version
```

## Creating a project with cargo
```
$ cargo new hello_cargo //create a new directory call hello_cargo
$ cd hello_cargo // go into hello_cargo directory 
```
- list file that cargo creates
```
~/test_create master*
❯ ls
drwxr-xr-x  - nariewynn 16 Thg 7  15:07  .git
drwxr-xr-x  - nariewynn 16 Thg 7  15:07 󰣞 src
.rw-r--r--  8 nariewynn 16 Thg 7  15:07 󰊢 .gitignore
.rw-r--r-- 82 nariewynn 16 Thg 7  15:07  Cargo.toml
```
**Note:** Cargo creates git init 
**File name Cargo.toml default**
```
[package]
name = "hello_cargo"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2024"

[dependencies]
```
- A section [package] is a heading contains statements
- Statement 3 lines below section is configuration information Cargo needs to compile program
- [dependencies] section to list all the dependencies in project. (Similar to [[CMake#^9abf85|find_package]] in CMake)
**Note:** Cargo doesnt need to find_package then target_link_librariesneeds. Cargo only needs to list dependencies inside section [dependencies]
## Building and Running a Cargo Project
- After cd hello_cargo, build the project by this command
```rust
$ cargo build
//Output
   Compiling hello_cargo v0.1.0 (file:///projects/hello_cargo)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 2.85 secs
```
This command creates an executable file in target/debug/hello_cargo (or target\debug\hello_cargo.exe in Window)
-Run the executable with this command:
```rust
$ ./target/debug/hello_cargo # or .\target\debug\hello_cargo.exe on Windows
//Output
Hello, world!

```
**Instead of using these two command use this command to build and run the project**
```rust
$ cargo run
//Output
   Compiling hello_cargo v0.1.0 (file:///projects/hello_cargo)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.33 secs
     Running `target/debug/hello_cargo`
Hello, world!


```
- Checking
```rust
$ cargo check
//Output
   Checking hello_cargo v0.1.0 (file:///projects/hello_cargo)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.32 secs

```
This command check the code to make sure it compiles but doesnt produce an executable
**Note:** cargo check is much faster than cargo build (doesnt produce an executable). Using cargo check to checking the project while writing to make sure code is still compile 
## Building for Release
- Use this command to compile the project with optimizations
```rust
cargo build --release
```
This command will create an executable in target/release instead of target/debug. This make the code run faster but longer compile time. Therefore, use this command when need to build the final program to give it to user.
