## 1. Setting Up a New Project 
To start the project, run the following commands in your terminal:
```bash
cargo new guessing_game
cd guessing_game
```
It will create a new project named `guessing_game` and change into the new project's directory. You will also see a [[C1. Introduction to Rust Programming Language#^7c7802|Cargo.toml ]] file inside.
## 2. Processing a Guess
Filename: src/main.rs
```rust
use std::io;

fn main(){
	println!("Guess the number!");
	
	println!("Please input your guess.");
	
	let mut guess = String::new();
	
	io::stdin()
		.read_line(&mut guess)
		.expect("Failed to read line");
	
	println!("You guessed: {guess}");
}
```
## 3. Source Code Breakdown 
Importing Libraries (`use std::io;`)
- This brings the Input/Output (`io`) library from the standard library (`std`) into the current scope to receive input and output results.
    
- By default, Rust has a set of items defined in the standard library called **the prelude**. If a type you want to use isn't in the prelude, you have to use the `use` statement to bring it in.
    
- [[Chapter 12: Prelude List|Update the list of prelude later in Chapter 12]]
# Printing Text
```rust
println!("Guess the number!");
	
println!("Please input your guess.");
```
- The next two lines use a macro that prints a string to the screen.
    
- [[C1. Introduction to Rust Programming Language#^e7e3ea|Click to see more about Macros]]
## Storing Values with Variables
- Next, create a variable to store user input
```rust
let mut guess = String::new();
```
- We use the `let` statement to create the variable.
    
- Example: `let apples = 5;` creates a new variable named `apples` and binds it to the value `5`.
    
- In Rust, variables are **immutable by default**, meaning once we give the variable a value, the value won't change.
    
    - [[Chapter 3: Variables and Mutability|See more in Chapter 3]]


To make a variable mutable, add `mut` before the variable name:
```rust
let apples = 5; // immutable
let mut bananas = 5; // mutable
```
- So, `let mut guess` will introduce a mutable variable named `guess`.
    
- **Note:** Variables can bind to any values, instances, or functions.
    
- [[Rust Syntax#^a71ab6|Click to see more about String::new()]]
## Receiving User Input
```rust
io::stdin()
	.read_line(&mut guess)
```
- This function comes from the standard [[Rust Library#^963aeb| io library]] 
    
- `.read_line()` takes whatever the user types into standard input and appends that into the string without overwriting its contents.
    
- **Metaphor:** Imagine an empty box created by `String::new()`. `read_line` takes whatever string is typed and puts it into that box.
- [[Rust Syntax#^fc4933|See stdin() function here]]
    
- [[Rust Syntax#^f04d47|See reference & here]]
# Handling Potential Failure with Result 
```rust
.expect("Failed to read line");
```
Note that we still working on the same single logical of code
```rust
io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess).expect("Failed to read line");
```
read_line puts whatever user input into the string, but it also returns a `Result` value. Result is an enumeration (enum) see chapter 6. 
`expect` method is to handle the `Ok` and `Err` variants of the `Result`. If there is a error `expect` will throw a error.
If you don't call `expect` the program can still compile, but you'll get a warning 
```bash
$ cargo build
   Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
warning: unused `Result` that must be used
  --> src/main.rs:10:5
   |
10 |     io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess);
   |     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
   |
   = note: this `Result` may be an `Err` variant, which should be handled
   = note: `#[warn(unused_must_use)]` on by default
help: use `let _ = ...` to ignore the resulting value
   |
10 |     let _ = io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess);
   |     +++++++

warning: `guessing_game` (bin "guessing_game") generated 1 warning
    Finished `dev` profile [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.59s

```
This error mean the program hasn't handled a possible error.
See more about recovering from errors in Chapter 9.

# Handling Potential Failure with Result

```rust
.expect("Failed to read line");
```

Note that we are still working on the same single logical line of code. We can write this whole execution as one single line:
```rust
io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess).expect("Failed to read line");
```

However, one long line is difficult to read, so it is best to divide it using the .method_name() syntax on a new line.

# How it Works (Under the Hood)
* read_line puts whatever the user inputs into the string, but it also returns a Result value. 
* Result is an enumeration (enum) [[Chapter 6: Enums and Match|Click to see more about Enums]]. It has two variants: Ok (success) and Err (failure).
* The .expect() method is used to unpack this Result box:
  * If the variant is Ok: .expect() takes the underlying value that Ok is holding (the number of bytes read) and passes it to the program so it can continue running.
  * If the variant is Err: .expect() will immediately crash the program (panic) and display the error message you provided: "Failed to read line".
# The Unused Result Warning
If you do not call .expect(), the program can still compile and run, but the compiler will give you a warning because you have not handled a possible error:
```bash
$ cargo build
   Compiling guessing_game v0.1.0 (file:///projects/guessing_game)
warning: unused `Result` that must be used
  --> src/main.rs:10:5
   |
10 |     io::stdin().read_line(&mut guess);
   |     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
   |
   = note: this `Result` may be an `Err` variant, which should be handled
   = note: `#[warn(unused_must_use)]` on by default

warning: `guessing_game` (bin "guessing_game") generated 1 warning
    Finished `dev` profile [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.59s
```
Rust gives you this warning to enforce safety, ensuring that you do not ignore potential system failures.
* [[Chapter 9: Error Handling|See more about recovering from errors in Chapter 9]]
# Printing Values with `println!` Placeholders
```rust
println!("You guessed: {}");
```
This line prints the string that now contains the user's input. The `{}` is a placeholder, which is where the value is placed when printed.
### Two Ways to Format Values

When printing, you can either place the variable name directly inside the curly braces `{x}` (for simple variables) or use a comma-separated list after the string.
```rust
let x = 5;
let y = 10;
println!("x = {x} and y + 2 = {}", y + 2);
//OR
println!("x = {} and y + 2 = {}", x, y + 2);
```
### Important Rule for Expressions

- **Valid:** `{x}` is valid because `x` is a specific variable name.
    
- **Invalid:** `{y + 2}` is invalid and will cause a compiler error.
    

**Reason:** Rust only allows direct variable names inside the curly braces. It cannot evaluate calculations or expressions (like `y + 2`) inside the placeholder. For any calculations, you must use an empty placeholder `{}` and place the expression after the comma.

This code will print 
```bash
x = 5 and y + 2 = 12
```
# Generate a Secret Number
Rust doesn't yet include random number functionality in its standard library.
=> Increasing functionality with a Crate
Crate is a collection of Rust source code files. Library crate contains code that is intended to be used in other programs and can't be executed on its own.
